# 001: Filters

**Implementation Effort:** Low – IT and Security Operations teams need to create new filters as smarter grouping and targetting method.

**User Impact:** Low - The end users are not directly affected unless their Dispositivos are included or excluded in the filters.

---

## Overview

When you create a policy, you can use filters to assign a policy based on rules you create. A filter allows you to narrow the assignment scope of a policy. For example, use filters to target Dispositivos with a specific OS version or a specific manufacturer, target only personal Dispositivos or only organization-owned Dispositivos, and more.

Filters are available for:

Dispositivos enrolled in Intune, which are managed Dispositivos.

Apps that are managed by Intune, which are managed apps.

Managed apps are used in mobile Gerenciamento de Aplicativos (MAM) scenarios. MAM involves managing apps on Dispositivos that aren't enrolled in Intune, which is common with personally owned Dispositivos. For more information on MAM in Intune, go to What is Microsoft Intune app management?.

You can use filters in the following scenarios:

Deploy a Windows Dispositivos restriction policy to only the corporate Dispositivos in the Marketing department, while excluding personal Dispositivos.
Deploy an iOS/iPadOS app to only the iPad Dispositivos in the Finance users group.
Deploy an Android mobile phone compliance policy to all users in the company, and exclude Android meeting room Dispositivos that don't support the mobile phone compliance policy settings.
On personally owned Dispositivos, deploy an app configuration policy for a specific app manufacturer or an app protection policy that runs a specific OS version.
Filters include the following features and benefits:

Improve flexibility and granularity when assigning Intune policies and apps.
Are used when assigning apps, policies, and profiles. They dynamically target managed Dispositivos based on Dispositivos properties and target managed apps based on app properties you enter.
Can include or exclude Dispositivos or apps in a specific group based on criteria you enter.
Can create a query of Dispositivos or app properties based on different properties, like Dispositivos platform or application version.
Can be used and reused in multiple scenarios in "Include" or "Exclude" mode.

* Implementation cost: Low
* User impact: Medium

## Reference

* https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/mem/intune/fundamentals/filters
